9 Addictions you must break to become you best self:
1. Comparison:
Comparison leads to:
	Rushed goals
	Dissatifaction with life
	Feelingof inadequacy
Comparison will zap the joy out of your life if you let it.
Try this: Add a simple gratitude practice to your morning/evening routine.
2. Comfort:
The comfort zone is where dreams go to die.
You don'tneed to ump off a cliff, but you do need to push yourself a little closer to the edge.
Try this: Use the 85% Rule - learning is optimized when we get things right about 85% of the time.
3. Quitting:
The only way to guarantee failure is to quit.
Simply staying in the game long enough will put you ahead of most people.
Try this: Commit to something and give your friend $100. It you quit - they get to keep the money.
4. Distraction:
Do you distract yourself from real life?
Not including sleep - is there ever a time when you're not watching, listening, or consuming some kind of information?
Try this: Schedule two 15-minute blocks each day to do NOTHING.
No inputs. No Distraction.
5. Your Phone:
YOu knew it was coming.
Phone addiction is real, and dangerous.
Try this:
	1. Turn your phone off 1 hour before bed.
	2. Don't turn it on for 1 hour after your eyes.
6. Waiting for perfect conditions to start:
There's someone out there who's way less qualified than you and is living the life you want.
Simply because they took action.
Try this: Jeff Bezo's 70% Rule- take action when you have 70% of the information you wish you had
7. Multitasking:
Whether it be writing, rading, or even watching a movie.
Half-focusing leads to half-assing.
Try this: Commit you full focus to whatever you're doing.
8. Procastination:
Pink Floyd said it best:
"And then one day you find 10 years have got behind you. No one told you when to run, you missed the starting gun."
terrifying right?
Don't lose your life to procastination.
Try this: 5-Minute Rule- If you're procastinating on somrthing, just work on it for 5 minutes. The hardest part of a task is getting over the hump of starting it.
9. Complaing:
Complaing may seem harmless. But over time, it will train your brain to seek out the negative side of everything.
Try this: Wear a rubber band on your wrist for a week. Every time you coplain-snap it.