9 Micro habits that will solve 80% of your daily problems:

1. Gratitude: We hear about gratitude all the time but science backs it up. Those who express gratitude increase well-being, can focus more on what's working, and overcome challenges at a faster pace.
Write 3 things you're grateful for each morning, and start your day empowered.
2. Airplane mode: Instead of immediately grabbing the phone and starting the day off being reactive, choose to take control and start the day on your terms. Todo so, start the day on airplane mode for at least 15 minutes and work your way up to 60 minutes or more.
3. Physical Movement: Physical movement is crusial to creativity, motivation, and mental performance. Start simple: time yorself doing one activity for at least 10 minutes.
4. Mindfulness: The habit of mindfulness through meditation is shown to increase wellbeing, boost creativity, and provide some much-needed perspective. Spend at least five minutes being aware of your breath, in silence, or using a guided meditation.
5. Learn Daily: Constant learning and education is a successful habit shared by many successful people.
Set a marker for learning every day whether 10 pages a day or a specific time you're blocking out.
6. Focused Time: To make focus habit, start with 25 minute popodoro sessions at least once a day, and build your habit of focused time from there.
7. Set Boundaries: We tend to respect people who set boundaries and are willing to say "no" to requests that aren't aligned with their priorities, but we're not skilled at doing this ourselves.
Setting boundaries could mean having a conversation with someong about our Current focus. Or, it could simply mean saying no.
To make setting boundaries a habit, find one way every week to ensure you protect your time, energy, and attention.
8. Seek Novelty: Seeking novelty is the simple act of experiencing something new to provide a spark of ideas, insight, or perspective.
For example, changing your workout routine, reading a book in a genre you would otherwise discount, or even taking a new route home from work. All of these are simple ways to introduce novelty.
Add in a weekly dose of novelty to your schedule & make it a habit.
9. Celebrate Wins: We're often the worst people to see and recognize our own growth, especially those who consider themselves high performers.
However there is immense value in owning and celebrating wins by taking a step back and reflecting on how far we've come.
By doing so, you'll focus on what is working, harness progress, and drown out the part of you that relies on pointing out how you could be further along. Celebrate three wins every day by writing them down.