The Information Cycle:
All data has a lifecycle. From creation to disposal, data must be properly managed to avoid misplacing or misusing it. Let’s take a look at each stage in the lifecycle to learn how to manage stored data.
Select each stage of the cycle to learn what it entails.
Create:
We create, edit, update, and delete data on a daily basis. Data that includes personal information is subject to data privacy laws and regulations. 
Data privacy rules include company policies, the EU's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), US federal and state law, and other region-specific laws and regulations.
Store:
How best to protect the personal information you need to keep depends on the kind of information and how it’s stored.
The most effective data security plans deal with four key elements:
Physical security
Electronic security
Employee training
Security practices of contractors and service providers
Use:
When personal data or personally identifiable information (PII) is stored, access controls such as rights management and encryption must be employed to prevent unauthorized use.
The information should be monitored and protected during use also.
Archive:
Agencies and institutions increasingly collect and maintain large amounts of data about individuals in order to provide their services. Some data may need to be preserved indefinitely (archived).
Other information will need to be preserved for a prescribed period of time and then will need to be destroyed once that time period has elapsed. But a large amount of information can be destroyed immediately.
Destroy:
When our data is held by others on our behalf, we must ensure the custodians agree to all of our data storage standards and conditions. Ongoing investigations may require that retention schedules be suspended. Effective storage of data is dependent on the lifecycle passing efficiently. This is accomplished by classifying the data upon receipt and then placing it into the correct information security category. The category determines the retention schedule, which dictates where/how data is stored, level of security, and ease of retrieval.

