In 2024 Mid-Term Management Plan, “Green, Digital and Innovations” have been positioned as growth drivers, which aim to support people’s happiness through realizing a sustainable society with planetary boundary (social and economic development that protects the earth) and wellbeing (a society in which every individual is comfortable and active). By accelerating the shift to growth based on the results of structural reforms to date and further strengthening profitability and cash generation capabilities, we aim to become a company that can return the benefits to stakeholders.

1.1 Numerical Management Targets

Identify the GAPs between As-is and To-be and take concrete measures to achieve the FY2023 targets.

1.2 Develop and Execute Growth Strategy via “Digital, Green Solutions and Innovation”

・Leverage Hitachi’s strengths in OT × IT × Products and grow by realizing digital transformation and green transformation to our customers based on Lumada. Contribute to realize a carbon-free society with less environmental impact and a resilient, safe and secure society in which people can live comfortably and be active.

・Accelerate new initiatives to drive innovation for customer’s growth with Hitachi.

・Leverage data and technology to build ”digital infrastructures that support people’s decision making” and visualize our future with disruptive innovation in Web 3.0.

・Whilst strengthening the technologies, identify essential technologies by back-casting from 2050, and invest aggressively in R&D activities that drive medium- to long-term growth.

1.3 Establish Global Management Platform

・Achieve efficient business operations according to business characteristics and global standardization of operations, accelerate internal DX, execute growth strategies focused on green and digital and risk management globally, emphasis on strengthening the ability to generate cash flows and expand core free cash flows so that we can make sufficient investments in growth and ensure returns to shareholder, and the optimization of organizations through the effective use of position management based on “Simplify, Digitalize and Globalize” management policy, to speed up management and improve labor productivity, and grow as a digital company which can respond quickly to market changes.

・To achieve carbon neutrality in factories and offices (2030 target) and in value chains as a whole (2050 target), promote decarbonization both internally and externally, and contribute to the realization of a decarbonized society.

1.4 Strengthen Diversity, Equity & Inclusion and Engagement, and Foster Growth Mindset/Agility with Hitachi Founding Spirit

・Leverage diverse talent to maximize individual and organizational performance by leading equitable opportunities and inclusive organization.

・Increase collaboration across BUs or regions to rally together to solve social issues as One Hitachi.

・Develop a culture of growth mindset/agility along with Hitachi founding spirit to drive one’s career aspiration, ensure psychological safety, encourage quick decision making and calculated risk taking, which contribute to create great place to work and improve engagement.

Hitachi FY2023