Japanese management style
–
Japanese management style often is to coordinate, integrate and motivate, therefore the decision making authority is shared and involves all individuals affected by the decision.



Japanese companies exist primarily “for the well-being of Japan and its people”. Careers are generally a life long employment usually with the one company where promotion is based on seniority, and the ultimate goal is broad experience.

Western management style
–
Typically Western management style is to supervise and decision making authority is generally held by one individual.



In Western companies it is not uncommon for employees to have many career changes, which can provide a greater cross section of industry experience. Promotion is based on merit. The offset is that employees can be considered expendable.

Why are there so many meetings?
–
It is important to remember when doing business with Japanese partners that meetings are often held to collect information, not to make decisions.



Meetings form part of the decision making process, where you share and listen, rather than finalize outcomes. They are held for the involvement of all stakeholders, and trying to reach a final decision during a meeting could harm your relationships.

Why the Japanese tend to be quieter in meetings?
–
If one is not confident speaking in English, they will take more time to listen. It is considered impolite to interrupt, and there is importance in giving complete and conclusive information.

 “Silence is golden”, valued over an abundance of talking and linked to credibility.

Why do some people close their eyes during meetings?
–
Sometimes Japanese (management class predominantly) close their eyes during a presentation, which can give you the impression they are sleeping, however this helps to focus on what you say, and as such is a manner in which to concentrate.

GIFT GIVING
–
Japan is the country par excellence for company gifts. They are often offered at initial meetings. When a certain relationship has been established, it is almost compulsory to exchange gifts twice a year; late December (Oseibo) and mid-July (Ochugen).

If you visit Japan for business, you may consider a small gift from your own country, such as cookies or candies.


TOPIC OF CONVERSATION
–
It is recommended to not speak about yourself or express too many personal opinions. The Japanese typically consider that the group is more important than an individual. 


ENTERTAINMENT
–
Seldom is a business deal completed without dinner where foreigners are treated as a VIP, regardless of job title or age and karaoke may be one of the measures used to entertain them after a dinner session, as a part of "Japanese hospitality".

Remember: A person is judged by their behavior during and after business hours.
------------------------------------------

Japanese language and their method of communication places a great emphasis on subtle communication and silence. It is vital to understand that this practice is bound by the notion of harmony, as introduced earlier. Westerners engaging with Japanese may find this frustrating at times due to the seeming lack of direct and conclusive answers. 
---------------------------------------------------------------
Common expressions and their meanings  

What you hear : "We will consider this"
–
If there is no follow up, it is likely that this meant 'no'. 

What you hear : "It will take some time"
–
What it really means:



It might take a few months.

What you hear : "We need to discuss deeply"
–
What it really means:



I am not really sure what you are talking about.

The phrase,

“A swan which looks calm on the surface is paddling vigorously underneath the water”

represents the Japanese belief on communication.
--------------------------------------------------------------

TIPS

Don’t assume that you have reached an agreement, especially after a meeting
Ask to clarify specific details; double check and follow up
Final decisions will be communicated directly.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dining Etiquette
The traditional cuisine of Japan is based on rice with miso soup and other dishes that often incorporate seasonal ingredients. There are important manners that Westerners should be aware of when eating Japanese food, especially in the company of Japanese associates. 
The traditional cuisine of Japan is based on rice with miso soup and other dishes that often incorporate seasonal ingredients. There are important manners that Westerners should be aware of when eating Japanese food, especially in the company of Japanese associates. 

During the course of business you are likely to dine with Japanese associates. Failure to conduct oneself appropriately may result in a negative perception held against the individual and the organization they represent.

Below are 6 basic points about dining etiquette in Japan.
------------------------------
Chopsticks

It is important not to misuse chopsticks. Rest chopsticks horizontally on a plate, bowl or the holder (hashioki 箸置き) provided. If you do not feel comfortable using chopsticks, you can ask for a knife and fork instead.

Review the following examples of what NOT to do with chopsticks:
