Protection when working with Customers
Phishing:
According to a 2020 McAfee report, the annual cost of cybercrime to the world economy is estimated at $945 billion. As more and more people go online, it’s not surprising that over half of global online users have experienced some form of cybercrime.
What is surprising though is that 75% of organizations around the world experienced some kind of phishing attack in 2020, according to a 2021 Proofpoint report. Another 2020 report by Verizon states that 96% of phishing attacks arrive by email.

What is Customer Data?
By default all customer data in Hitachi Vantara's custody that is not public in nature and has been provided to us by the customer should be considered Customer Data. Following are examples:
Data stored in customer systems - Customer data, including data in customer controlled systems and customer data stored in systems serviced or maintained by Hitachi Vantara (such as managed services or cloud services)
Data generated by or in customer systems - Data generated about customer systems or applications.
Data about customer systems - System configuration information, customers' IT infrastructure information, customers' network diagrams.
Customers' test and evaluation data - data provided to Hitachi Vantara in the course of sales or for proof-of-concept purposes.
Customer contact information - Data about individuals at the customer, including systems controlled by Hitachi Vantara, such as Salesforce, ServiceNow.
There is additional information that is typically created as a result of a service to or an agreement with the customer. This Customer Related Service Information is typically shared between the customer and Hitachi Vantara. Examples include:
Intellectual property created or maintained by Hitachi Vantara
Operational data from HItachi Vantara products - performance and operational data about the health of Hitachi Vantara products.
Service execution information - performance reports, time sheets, support cases
Contract information - contracts, service agreements, quotes, pricing.

What needs to be protected?
By default, all customer data in Hitachi Vantara's custody that is not public in nature, must be considered Hitachi Vantara Confidential with access granted on a strictly need to know basis. This includes customer related service information.
In many customer engagements Hitachi Vantara staff may be granted access to a customer's systems, network or applications. All users must apply the same diligence and care as required to access Hitachi Vantara systems, network and applications.
When working with customers or in customers environments always remember that you also need to continue to protect Hitachi Vantara. Users using or accessing Hitachi Vantara systems, network and applications to deliver to customers must also comply with HItachi Vantara's requirements.
For the avoidance of any doubt, make sure to understand the contractual security and data protection requirements and obligations for data protection and information security.

What Are the Consequences?
The primary motive behind many cyberattacks is financial gain. With nearly 75% of all businesses experiencing some form of phishing attack in 2020, financial losses can quickly add up to an average of $3.92 million per breach. Although this can effectively close small to medium enterprises, it can also damage brand reputation for larger companies and organizations.
Other lasting effects of phishing cybercrime are:
Loss of Intellectual Property (IP), where misuse of confidential business information leads to copycat products and services being offered elsewhere on the market
The manipulation of a company’s publicly traded stocks and shares by accessing nonpublic insider information, such as performance metrics or potential acquisitions
Reputational damage to the company due to the negative exposure of a hacking scandal in the public domain
Fines and penalties imposed by law enforcement agencies for lack of due diligence, which may lead to lengthy and expensive litigation proceedings.
----------------------
Types of Phishing:
Phishing scams use official-looking emails to dupe users into clicking a link that directs them to fake replica websites where they willingly input their confidential information.
There are various forms these scams can take, some of which have evolved to become more personalized and coincide with user job role, current location, and recurring events, such as monthly payday.
Select each topic to learn more about the most common types of phishing attacks.

Protecting Customer Data:
By default, customer data should be handled and protected as data classified as Hitachi Vantara Confidential, unless specific contract terms require more stringent protection.
Grant access to customer data on a strictly need-to-know basis and do not share customer data with any other organization within Hitachi Vantara or Hitachi Group companies without the explicit prior approval by the customer.
Do not access, store, process, or transfer customer information outside of Hitachi Vantara’s managed and approved systems.
Segregate storage, computing, and network environments for different customers.
Return or delete all Hitachi Vantara Information in your possession, including all customer information, before you end your employment/contract with Hitachi Vantara.
Security issues and incidents involving customer data shall be immediately reported to Hitachi Vantara’s InfoSec team by email to INFOSEC-IR@hitachivantara.com and in accordance to contract terms.

Protecting Customer Related Service Information:
By default, customer related service information should be handled and protected as data classified as Hitachi Vantara Confidential, unless specific contract terms require more stringent protection.
Grant access to customer related service information on a strictly need-to-know basis and do not share customer related service information with any other organization within Hitachi Vantara or Hitachi Group companies without the explicit prior approval by the customer.
Do not export or extract customer related service information from business applications like Salesforce.com, Hitachi Order Management Tool (HOMT), Hitachi Remote Ops, Assure Service Desk, client accessible HCP Anywhere, SharePoint or Teams, or similar applications unless you have authorization to do so.
Security issues and incidents involving customer related service information must immediately be reported to Hitachi Vantara’s InfoSec team by email to INFOSEC-IR@hitachivantara.com .

Securely connecting to the Customer:
By default, Hitachi Vantara equipment connecting to or servicing customer equipment must be secured in accordance with and at least at the level defined within Hitachi Vantara's Global Information Security policies and organizational standards, unless specific contract terms require more stringent protection.
Segregate storage, computing, and network environments for different customers. Do not co-mingle information from different customers.
Do not use external storage devices to exchange customer information. Only use approved cloud services to store, process or transmit customer data.
Security issues and incidents involving customer systems must immediately be reported to Hitachi Vantara’s InfoSec team by email to INFOSEC-IR@hitachivantara.com and in accordance to contract terms.

Securing Hitachi Vantara when working with Customers:
All Hitachi Vantara equipment, facilities, network and applications must conform to security requirements defined by Hitachi Vantara's Global Information Security Policy and applicable organizational standards.
Segregate Hitachi Vantara network, computing, and storage from environment servicing customers.
Use only remote connectivity methods that have been approved by Hitachi Vantara IT and InfoSec.
Do not install software onto or do not permit scanning of Hitachi Vantara systems unless approved by Hitachi Vantara InfoSec.
Security issues and incidents involving Hitachi Vantara systems must immediately be reported to Hitachi Vantara’s InfoSec team by email to INFOSEC-IR@hitachivantara.com . 
