Social Engineering – Email Threats
Have you ever opened your inbox to find an email telling you that you’ve won $1 million? All you need to do is call this number...
Scams:
You probably didn’t call the number. You knew it was a scam. 
However, there are much subtler forms of manipulation about which we must be aware.
Cybercriminals:
Cybercriminals use technology to manipulate people, both online and offline.
Victims unwittingly provide sensitive information, system access, and even money without realizing the deception.
Social Engineering:
Known as social engineering, this method of conducting fraudulent activity takes many forms.
The best defense against it is to be aware of potential risks and develop behaviors that challenge and interrogate the supposed facts.
What Is Physical Deception?
Social engineering is practiced both physically and virtually.
Tailgating, where someone not otherwise authorized follows a member of staff through a secure doorway, is an example of a physical form of social engineering.
Another is shoulder surfing, where information is read or recorded over someone’s shoulder.
What Is Virtual Deception?
Pretexting involves criminals impersonating someone official (such as a credit card company or a utility company employee) or creating some other pretense to gather the victim’s personal information.
Phishing involves emails, texts, or other messages (SMSes) being sent from seemingly legitimate sources, often with the pretense of a sense of urgency, to manipulate the victim into sharing personal or other sensitive information.
Vishing uses automated phone systems to prompt users to log in, thus capturing their details.
What Are Traps?
Baiting is prompting someone to use a portable storage device that installs malware on their computer.
Quid pro quo involves help offered from a seemingly legitimate source (for example, your IT helpdesk) or offering a gift or prize in return for information.
What Are Watering Hole Attacks?
A watering hole attack is a strategy where the attacker targets a website that employees of the targeted organization regularly visit.
Then, the attacker infects the website with malware, which, in turn, infects the employees’ machines when they visit the website.
What Are Best Practices for Staying Secure?
Stay securely connected by verifying people’s identities using trusted sources.
Be sure to never open attachments, follow links, run software, or use hardware from untrusted sources.
Always double-check a company’s phone number and website.
Never share your password.