1. “To” shows direction, destination, or a recipient.

Daniel walks to the office every day.
The secretary gave the report to the manager before the meeting.

2. "To" is used to tell the time.

It’s 15 minutes to 10. (It’s 9:45.)

When combined with "from," "to" expresses duration.

Rachel works from 8:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m.


3. "To" indicates a preference.

Carla prefers apples to grapes.
The children prefer watching videos to playing board games.

4. "To" introduces infinitives that follow certain verbs.
Some of these verbs that infinitives follow are "expect," "decide," "learn," "claim," or "fail."

Bernadette learned to speak Catalan in middle school.
The purchasing manager decided to prioritize overseas suppliers.
Everyone in the team is expected to participate in the upcoming company event.

5. "To" is used in some idiomatic expressions. Some examples are:

"to a certain extent"

The executives agree with the client to a certain extent, but they are unwilling to spend beyond the budget.

"to (one’s) credit"

To his credit, Paul already owned three restaurants before he turned 30.

"to excess"

Myra’s savings increased after months of not shopping to excess.

"to date"

His speech is the most meaningful we have ever heard to date.

------------------------------------------
1. "For" shows direction, destination, or a recipient.

The flowers on the desk are for you.
The funds for several charities will be available next month.

2. "For" indicates periods of time or a future event.

The researchers explained their findings for two hours.
Your interview for May 5 will be at 2:00 p.m.

3. "For" shows substitution.

Rina traded her mid-range phone for a camera.
The procurement team is exchanging its old computers for the latest laptops.

4. "For" is used when expressing gratitude or describing a favor done.

Kristine thanked me for helping with her report.
Because I do not know how to speak Japanese, Satomi did the product presentation for me.


5. "For" expresses the benefits of something.

Completing this course will be great for your career.
Reading short news articles is ideal for language learning.

6. "For" expresses support or agreement.

She is for four-day work weeks.
Are you for or against cashless purchases?

7. "For" is used in some idiomatic expressions. Some examples are:

"for the record"

For the record, Bob submitted the report but it was incomplete.

"for free"

In this supermarket, customers get items for free if they buy goods over $500.

"for a living"

Leo teaches college algebra for a living.

"for good"

The family settled in Seoul for good.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The prepositions "to" and "for" can be used interchangeably to state the reason for doing something. "To" is followed by a verb, while "for" is followed by a noun.

"To" is also used when:

identifying the direction, destination, or recipient of something
telling the time or its duration
expressing preferences
introducing infinitives that follow certain verbs, like "allow" or "learn"
forming idiomatic expressions, like "to excess" or "to date"
"For" is used when:

identifying the direction, destination, or recipient of something
describing a period of time or a future event
indicating a substitution
expressing gratitude or talking about a favor done
talking about the benefits of something
showing agreement or support for something
forming idiomatic expressions, such as "for good" or "for a living"
 